Only on Fox.
- Narrator: Tonight...
- Lift!
the top five face
a final mystery box...
Tonight,
a little taste of home.
- ...that's full of emotion.
- Oh, Daddy, don't cry.
You all have to make
a delicious dish
inspired by your loved ones.
- I love you, baby!
- Make something good.
- And an elimination
challenge...
- Oh, my--
Oh, this is a big boy
right here.
- may leave one home cook...
- What do I do with that?
...brokenhearted.
Looks like that beef was
( bleep ) all over my plate.
Wow.
Welcome back, guys.
- Ah!
- Top five, baby!
Cesar: Top five.
I am ecstatic,
but having been away
from my parents
and from my sisters
for so long
is one of the most trying
things for me personally.
Head to your stations, please.
Cesar: But they're also
my source of motivation
to keep moving forward
in this competition.
Wait till you see
what's under there.
It's getting to be a very
tight competition.
So close to the finale.
Aarón only has one apron
with Cesar,
Joe only has Gerron left,
and Gordon still has
three mentees left in
this competition.
So I'm gonna do whatever I can
to make sure I'm the last one
standing for Gordon.
Now, it's time for your last
mystery box challenge.
On the count of three,
we're gonna lift those boxes.
One, two, three.
( gasps )
Oh. Mommy.
( crying )
I know that handwriting.
Joe: Tonight, there are
no ingredients under
your mystery box,
but there is a little
taste of home.
- Wow!
- Please, open your letters.
"Hi, Ashley. Your mom
and I miss you very much.
We are so very proud of you
for following your passion.
Now is the time to dig down
deep inside yourself
so that you can achieve
your ultimate goal
and make your dreams come true.
Love, Mom and Dad."
"Future hus-bae,
I miss you beyond words.
I especially miss your cooking.
I know your mom is in heaven
smiling from ear to ear,
because she created
an incredible human being.
Everything you're doing is
making her proud.
I love you, Gerron Hurt.
Sincerely, your future wife."
So tonight, Joe, Aarón,
and myself want to see you
make a dish inspired
by the person
who placed that letter
under your mystery box.
All of you will have
five minutes in the most
amazing pantry
to help you make
the best possible dish.
The winner is going to receive
a huge advantage
in the upcoming
elimination challenge.
Gordon:
Right, everybody ready?
Home cooks:
Yes, Chef.
Your five minutes start...
...now.
Let's go.
There are no other
sweet potatoes.
Let's grab crushed tomatoes
just in case.
This mystery box challenge
has me so excited,
because we really can make
anything we want.
So I'm gonna take inspiration
from my mom's letter.
I'm gonna make something
she made for me every year
on my birthday,
but I'm gonna amp it up
and make it MasterChef-style.
Gosh, it's so quiet
in here, guys.
Right, you guys ready?
They're coming.
Big smiles.
- Where's vinegar?
- Chicken stock in there.
Come on, here we go.
Gordon:
Let's go, guys.
( gasps )
Gerron, you have your gorgeous
fiancée, Brandi, here.
- ( Brandi laughs )
- ( sighs )
Hi!
I told you I'm always gonna be
here for you no matter what.
Gordon:
Ashley, your dad, Henry.
( squeals )
Daddy!
Oh, Daddy, don't cry.
( crying )
Don't cry.
Daddy, don't cry.
Aarón:
Cesar, your mom, Maria.
What is happening?
Joe:
Bowen, look who came to see you.
Your husband, David.
Oh, my God!
Gordon:
Samantha, look who's here.
( crying )
Mom!
- ( both crying )
- I love you, baby.
( crying ) Oh, Mom!
My mom, she's given up a lot.
She was a teacher in Mexico,
but she gave up her career
to move all of us to Houston
to give my sisters and I
a better opportunity.
That is the greatest
sacrifice anybody can give
for somebody else.
So tonight,
I'm cooking for her.
Now, there's not a dry eye
in the kitchen,
but you all have to get cooking.
So, families, please head up
to the balcony
so you can watch your loved ones
doing what they do so well.
You get the best seat
in the house at that balcony.
I know. It's saved.
I'm gonna kill it for you, baby.
Joe:
To the balcony.
Gordon:
Wow, what a night!
Now I hope you're motivated.
You'll all have 45 minutes
to make us a delicious dish
inspired by your loved ones
that have traveled to be here
with us today.
Your 45 minutes starts--
- David.
- Now.
Guys, it doesn't get
any more exciting than this.
The top five and supported
by their loved ones, big time.
- Brandi: You got this, babe.
- Thank you, baby.
You know, when you cook
for your family
you give that
extra bit more,
extra bit of flavor,
extra bit of intensity.
- You put a bit of your own
heart in that plate.
- Sure.
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
The one thing I'm gonna hold
them accountable for--
I don't wanna have a dish
that we would've had
before they came
into the MasterChef kitchen.
- No.
- So we wanna see
the sense of home,
tradition, love,
but with all the knowledge
and technique
they've gained here
in the MasterChef kitchen.
Aarón:
Less than 35 minutes.
Come on, let's move it.
Ay, mijito.
My mom, as kids
she would always make us potato
and some sort of pork product.
So I'm gonna be making
potato and pork tacos
with homemade flour tortillas.
I've won two mystery boxes
before
and I'm really aiming to win
my third one tonight,
and not just for me
but for my mom as well.
- Bowen. Give us an insight
to the dish.
- Yes, Chef.
My husband is my big supporter
in my life.
Pork is his favorite food.
So I'm cooking Asian style
sweet and spicy pork chop
with cauliflower puree.
- And how did you meet David?
- Through a friend.
Tell me, how did you propose to
him or did he propose to you?
We both proposed to each other
in Las Vegas in your restaurant.
- You were in my restaurant?
- Yes.
Why didn't you tell me?
I didn't get a chance
to see you.
Text me next time and I'll get
you to the front of the queue.
I'm VIP, right?
( laughs )
- Good luck.
- Thank you.
Gerron, what is the dish?
What I'm making today,
it is a homemade potato soup.
I have fresh croutons
that I've made from scratch.
I have bacon.
First dish I made for that woman
and that's why I got that woman.
Brandi, what's it been like
being without Gerron?
It's been extremely hard.
I'm just waiting for him
to return and just cook for me.
( laughs )
You know, he's my last mentee.
We've been shaping him here.
We've been molding him.
He's like a block of marble,
and I'm gonna sculpt him.
- Good luck, Gerron.
- Thank you, Joe.
Aarón:
All right, so just
over 15 minutes, guys.
- Samantha.
- Chef Aarón.
Talk to me a little bit
about this dish.
So something
that my mom makes me
every year for my birthday
is a bow tie or farfalle pasta
in a mushroom cream sauce,
but today I'm amping it up
MasterChef-style
and doing a vodka
cream sauce.
All right, Samantha,
between you and I,
whose farfalle dish is better,
yours or your mom's?
- Definitely mine.
- All right. Mom!
She says her farfalle
is better than yours.
You said that was between us!
- Of course hers is better.
- Aarón: I love it.
- Don't let Mom down.
- I won't.
All right, home cooks,
five minutes to go.
Let's go.
- Right, young lady, come on.
- Yes, Chef.
How excited are you?
Super excited to show off
for my daddy.
I'm 28,
but I'm still a daddy's girl.
I'm making his favorite dish--
a spiced, grilled pork chop,
a sweet potato puree
and homemade biscuits.
- My daddy used to make this
for me with less spices.
- Right.
He's the one that really,
really believed in me,
- and this is all for him.
- Good luck.
90 seconds to go.
I will make you proud.
These five talented home cooks
are cooking from the heart.
Y'all hustling?
Y'all hustling, guys?
Gordon:
60 seconds to go!
- Joe: Come on.
- Gordon: Do your families
proud.
- Let's go, guys! Come on!
- Ten, nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four,
three, two, one.
- Gordon: Stop.
- ( cheering )
All of you, well done.
Now, you know,
every time you cook
in this incredible kitchen,
we miss nothing.
We watch and we study
everything you do.
And there's a couple of dishes
that we'd like to take
a much deeper look at.
The first dish--
this individual plated
impeccably,
and it was so nice to see that
level of finesse yet again.
Please, step forward...
Gordon:
Incredible mystery box
challenge tonight.
Now, there's a couple of dishes
that we'd like to take
a much deeper look at.
The first dish-- this individual
plated impeccably,
and it was so nice to see that
level of finesse yet again.
Please, step forward...
Gerron.
Thank you.
My dish is a hundred percent
inspired by my family.
It is my mom's recipe.
And with Brandi up
on that balcony cheering me on,
I know it is the best dish
that I have ever made
in this MasterChef kitchen.
Wow, young man!
Describe that beautiful
looking dish, please.
It is a homemade
potato soup
with herb-infused oil,
crispy bacon, sour cream,
homemade croutons,
and chives.
- What's on top?
- Bacon pieces,
chives,
and then croutons.
Wow!
Delicious!
It's rich,
great seasoning.
The bacon, fragrant.
Nice and crispy.
You've shown it finesse.
You've nailed it.
What would I change?
You know, maybe just let it down
with a touch of stock,
so it's not so thick,
so you can eat more of it.
Okay, Chef.
But you cook from here
and that's very rare.
If you cook like this with that
future wife up on the balcony,
please,
come back next week.
'Cause you put that heart and
soul into this man's cooking.
I love you.
I love you, too, babe.
- Me?
- I love you, too, Chef.
I do.
I love you, Chef.
- Great job, young man.
- Thank you.
The second dish
that we would like to look at...
is a pork dish.
Please, bring your dish
up here, Bowen.
Bowen:
I'm feeling great.
With David here,
I cooked with love.
I never winning
the mystery box before,
but tonight I think is my night.
Aarón:
Bowen, describe your dish.
The dish is pan-seared
pork chop,
sweet and sour pepper
with a pepper sauce,
caramelized beets
with cauliflower puree
for garnish.
This looks gorgeous,
just the color palette.
I think you got every color
imaginable represented.
All right,
so I'm gonna slice this.
I'm sure it's gonna
be beautiful.
Oh, my Lord.
Look at that.
- David, do you see that?
- Yeah.
Is that not a thing
of beauty?
- Man!
- My husband David,
he is my big supporter
in my life.
So, 100%
of the ingredient is love.
Perfect.
That pork is moist,
it's rich.
The sear on the outside
is beautiful,
and all this beautiful
array of peppers,
they soaked in all
the wonderful seasoning
that you put in there.
And the sauce--
well-balanced, herbaceous.
This is a home run.
Your heart, your soul,
your love for your partner--
all of that,
I can taste that story.
- Really special stuff, Bowen.
- Thank you, Chef.
Bowen!
The third dish
we wanna see more closely
is a dish that features
an incredible sauce.
Wearing a Gordon Ramsay apron,
bring your dish up here...
- Samantha.
- Whoo-hoo!
I'm in the top three of
this mystery box challenge!
And my mom is here.
I'm so excited that I made
a dish that she always made,
because she has always supported
my culinary dreams.
Wow!
Samantha, tell me
about the dish.
So today I have a farfalle
with a vodka cream sauce
and some mushrooms,
and then topped
with fried basil.
It looks fantastic.
I know a thing or two
about pasta, Janet.
- Do you know that?
- I do.
- I just wanted to make
that clear.
- Okay.
So, you have a beautiful
technique with your farfalle.
The pasta has a nice
yellow color to it.
And the sauce is tomatoes?
Garlic, oregano,
a little bit of lemon juice,
vodka, cream.
The texture of the pasta
is perfect.
Literally perfection.
The vodka, it adds like
a heat and a spiciness,
that really makes the tomato
sauce more interesting,
especially when you put
a little bit of cream
in it like you did.
She created perfect
pasta, Mom.
Way to go, bug.
A really excellent dish
of pasta, Samantha.
Thank you.
Whoo-hoo!
All of you, well done.
Traditionally,
we only call up three dishes.
But we've been so blown away,
that we wanna taste
all five of your dishes.
- Yes!
- Please, bring your dish down
to the front, Cesar.
Top three is top five
and I'm smiling from ear to ear.
Nothing feels better than
having my mom in the balcony,
watching me carry this symbol
of who I am as a person and
where I come from to the judges.
Wow!
Cesar, describe
the dish, please.
So I have pork
and potato tacos,
homemade flour tortillas,
a pineapple and habanero salsa
to balance it out,
and my pork seasoned with
Serrano and chipotle peppers.
Visually,
they look appetizing.
Tell me about that salsa.
So I threw in tomatoes,
onions, and garlic
in a piping hot
cast iron in the oven,
and then I sautéed pineapple
with habanero peppers
and pureed it all
together.
Delicious.
It's got the heat.
You got the spice,
got the sweetness,
the acidity,
but it's the pork elevated
to that kind of magical taste.
And then you go to that extent
of making your own tortillas.
- Yes, Chef.
- I think you've got your eye
on the prize.
I can feel it.
I can definitely taste it.
You should be very proud.
- Great job.
- Thank you.
( grunts )
And last, but by no means least,
get on up here, Ashley.
Hey, turn up!
I made a dish that my dad used
to make for me all the time.
So I put my soul on this plate.
I know I made my dad proud
tonight.
We have a brined
and grilled pork chop
with sweet potato puree
and orange cinnamon butter,
and some rosemary sage
buttermilk biscuits.
What kind of a cook
are we looking for
in this pork chop?
We're going for a medium,
medium well.
I wanted to really show off
that, you know, I can grill.
My grandmother made my daddy
a better griller.
He made me a better griller.
I just really wanted to show off
that skill set to him tonight.
Yes, and it's perfection.
Oh, yeah.
It's full of flavor.
You can taste a great char
on the pork chop.
It's super juicy
and moist.
The puree is salted nicely,
and the biscuits are good.
The one thing I would change,
I would throw like a little
bit more acidity in there.
But it's a really
fantastic dish,
- and I can really taste home
in it.
- Yes.
Thank you.
Good job.
I mean, undeniably
five amazing dishes.
( judges whispering
indistinctly )
- I gotta agree. Yeah.
- Yeah.
Tonight, all of you showed us
that you really do belong here.
Joe:
But, as always,
we have to pick one winner.
The home cook who will receive
a huge advantage...
That person is...
There were five incredible,
personal dishes
inspired by your loved ones.
But we have to pick one winner.
That person is...
- Bowen.
- ( cheers, applause )
Bowen:
I feel amazing to win
my first mystery box
in front of my darling David.
- Hey, don't cry. Come on.
- Thank you, Chef.
Having David here,
he give me extra motivation.
Means so much to me.
Aarón:
Congratulations, Bowen.
Before you find out
your advantage,
we have to say goodbye
to our special guests.
Come down and say goodbye
to your loved ones, please.
It means everything
to have my mom here.
Aarón:
Thank you so much,
all of you, for coming.
After so many weeks
of not seeing her,
this visit is exactly what I
needed to really keep me going.
I'm gonna keep her
in my heart and in my mind
the rest of the way.
Bye!
Joe:
Bowen, you have a huge
advantage coming your way.
- Come with us to the pantry.
- I feel like today
I'm the star.
I have the power in my hand.
So, I'm gonna use
this advantage wisely
to shake things up.
Gordon:
Bowen, welcome to the amazing
MasterChef pantry.
The decisions
that you make in here
will affect the course
of this entire competition.
Now, Bowen,
for the first challenge
you all got to see someone
who means the world to you,
someone who loves you, Bowen.
So, this next challenge
is all about...
heart.
And since you won
tonight's mystery box,
you will be deciding
the ingredient
that each of your competitors
will be working with.
So, the first option is
about the size of a softball.
A lamb heart.
It's gonna be a little bit more
irony, a little bit tougher,
but it's not so different
than actual lamb meat.
There's a lot of things
you can do with it.
Next up, more
of a cold-blooded heart.
That, my friend,
is a tuna heart.
Oh, no.
It's certainly gonna have
a lot of minerality to it,
a super amount
of bitterness.
Interpreting this into a dish
can be very difficult.
So, your next option
might leave one home cook
spitting feathers.
Talking about the one
and only duck heart.
It's extremely creamy
in flavor.
Treat it gently,
cook it lightly,
and you'll have something
that's just magical.
Next up, we have
the mother of all hearts.
Beef heart.
Oh, my God, that's big!
That is a chef's dream.
Packed with nutrients,
more importantly, flavorsome.
Now, this fifth ingredient
is one of my favorites.
The amazing...
artichoke heart.
That's the whole artichoke,
and this is the heart.
So diverse,
it's absolutely delicious.
Bowen, tonight, you also will
be cooking in this challenge.
So, before you decide
on the other home cooks,
we need to know
what you will be cooking with.
Bowen, it's the moment
of truth.
Please step up and put
your heart on this plate.
He looks so happy.
Thank you,
and please take a seat.
Tonight,
Bowen got a key advantage.
He got to choose the ingredient
that each of you
will be cooking with.
We asked Bowen to choose
between five hearts.
- Wow!
- Lamb heart,
tuna heart,
duck heart, beef heart,
and artichoke hearts.
( murmurs )
You're kidding me.
Tonight, Bowen is cooking again,
but he got to choose
his own ingredient first.
Bowen chose...
the artichoke heart.
Oh!
When you four
run into the pantry,
you will know which is yours
when you see the plate.
Sorry.
I'm not your friend.
You will have just 45 minutes
to cook us
a restaurant-quality dish
with whichever heart Bowen
has given to you this evening.
Your 45 minutes starts...
...now.
Run! Run! Run!
Oh, gosh!
Yup, this is definitely
the beef heart.
Oh, this is a big boy
right here.
Every heart is hard to make.
Lamb?
This is definitely
the duck heart.
Bowen: But the tuna heart
is most difficult.
Oh, he gave me
the tuna heart.
What a jerk!
What do I do with that?
Bowen:
Cesar always think
he is perfect.
He think he know everything.
- I hate you, Bowen!
- Bowen: I love you, Cesar.
So, if he think
he is really great chef,
he need to prove it.
Dang it!
What is this?
Cesar:
What goes with heart?
I've never heard of anybody
who eats tuna heart.
I've never eaten tuna heart.
All right, all right,
organize yourself.
Organize yourself.
This is major.
So, I'm drawing a blank
when it comes to ideas
on how to prepare this.
First-- damn it!
- Let's go, guys.
- Cesar: Time is ticking,
and if I don't come up
with something with this
heart immediately,
my heart is gonna stay here
in the MasterChef kitchen
and my body's gonna
be heading back to Houston.
Dang it!
What goes with heart?
All right, all right,
organize yourself.
Organize yourself.
This is major.
I'm frazzled,
because I'm drawing a blank
when it comes to ideas on how
to prepare the tuna heart.
First-- damn it!
Let's go, guys.
Slowly the idea of Asian cuisine
starts coming to mind.
Let's see, we got the rice.
We got the mushrooms.
I'm gonna step out
of my comfort zone,
and I'm gonna make
an Asian dish.
Gordon:
Let's go, guys.
So, Bowen won that mystery box
challenge earlier,
which gave him a huge advantage,
designating these hearts
to his fellow contestants.
Five hearts,
five young talented home cooks.
Gordon:
Let's start with the beef heart,
the easiest heart.
He should render that fat down
and slice that,
- almost like it's a liver.
It's delicious.
- Absolutely.
Beef heart is a true gem.
Okay, I like it with mustard.
So, Bowen gave Ashley
a lamb heart.
Now, lamb heart's a little bit
more difficult than beef heart.
It has a great similarity
to the taste of lamb meat.
- Gamy, wants to be spiced.
- It's a nice piece.
Gordon:
Samantha, wearing my pin.
She's got those duck hearts.
They are so rich,
so delicious done with peppers,
mushrooms, tomatoes,
and beautifully grilled.
That's the perfect way
to do a duck's heart.
Guys, let's talk
about the elephant in the room.
- The tuna heart.
- Joe: This is a hardworking
heart
because tunas swim at top,
top speed and go huge distances.
It's gonna be very intense,
very minerally.
Gordon:
Yeah. I think Bowen's trying
to get Cesar out.
- Yeah.
- Cesar could be going home
tonight.
- Okay.
- The heart to die for tonight
was the artichoke heart, because
the diversity's incredible.
- Yup.
- You can serve it
with any protein.
- You cannot go wrong
with artichoke.
- Yes,
except unless you're
from China,
where they don't really
eat artichokes.
Bowen could trip over
that artichoke heart,
because it is such a
Mediterranean ingredient.
Maybe he doesn't really
understand the essence
of cooking
a cruciferous vegetable.
- Okay, young man.
- What's up, Chef?
How you doing?
So you lucked out.
The beef heart, come on.
That's a dream.
Tell us about the dish
what are you doing?
I don't really know
how to cook hearts,
but growing up my mom always
made beef liver and onions.
And so, you know,
I know that the heart has
that same organ taste to it,
and so I wanna do a fried
beef heart tonight.
Liver and onions,
it's a delicious dish,
but traditionally one
of the most ugly dishes.
We want restaurant-quality
plating tonight.
So I'm really hoping
to cut my beef livers
into, like, just a nice shape.
I got some red cabbage
and some green cabbage.
I'm gonna sauté it,
just to add some color to it.
Now, you're the last hope
I have here tonight.
You're very, very close
to the finale.
This is not the time
to leave, Gerron.
- Good luck.
- Thank you.
Guys, just less
than 30 minutes to go.
Mushrooms just need aromatics.
- All right, Cesar,
how's it going, buddy?
- Yes, Chef.
Pretty good, Chef.
I got most of my components.
- Talk to me about your dish.
- Bowen gave me the tuna heart.
Tuna I associate
with Asian flavors,
so I'm gonna go
with grilled tuna kebabs.
Little bit of asparagus tips
on there.
Here I have some sesame
steamed rice.
I'm gonna throw some chives in
at the last second.
All right, so, Cesar,
you have my pin.
I'm counting on you
for big things.
If you can pull this off,
it might propel you to the top
of this competition.
- Okay?
- That's what I'm hoping for,
Chef.
- Good luck.
- Thank you.
Joe:
All right, Samantha.
Duck hearts.
- Have you tasted them yet?
- No.
- Oh, come on.
- What are you waiting for?
Come on!
I've never tasted them
before.
- This is your big moment.
- Oh, gosh, here we go.
- How delicious are they?
- Delicious.
That was really surprisingly
very, very delicious.
- I haven't had duck heart
in a while.
- You need more heart.
No, I do. I'm heartless.
I'm heartless.
- Tell me about the dish.
What are you doing?
- Kinda taking a citrus route.
I've got this cranberries,
apples, some plums in here.
You know, coming to kind of
like a coulis cranberry sauce
to really enhance
the sweetness of it.
Finale is around the corner.
Remember, focus,
get that presentation
working beautifully.
Okay, heard. Thank you.
All right, so, Ashley,
lamb heart,
- one of my all-time favorites.
- Oh!
- Talk to me about your dish.
- I'm going for a Moroccan
spiced lamb based off
of my time in Morocco.
So, I'm gonna go with
those Moroccan spices tonight,
and pray that it gets me up
to that balcony.
All right,
what else is on the dish?
So I have my, like,
tomato ragu going.
There's apricots in there,
and then my couscous
is steaming right now.
I have some roasted
vegetables.
I'm ready to rock and roll.
I'm about to do this.
All right. Good luck.
Gordon:
Three minutes remaining.
Okay, gotta hurry up.
All right, Bowen,
what's going on here?
I'm doing a sauté
artichoke salad
with quail egg,
and also cabbage shrimp rolls.
- What's inside the rolls?
- The mushroom.
- No artichoke?
- No artichoke.
Because, um, I don't--
I never had artichoke before.
It's-- it's supposed
to be a heart dish.
You've got the easiest heart,
artichoke hearts.
- Yes, Chef.
- You had this competition
in your hand. Hey.
45 minutes ago.
- Joe: Right.
- Okay, so you're in charge.
- So, young man--
- I'm not going home.
Yeah, we'll be the judge
of that.
Dear, oh, dear.
Gordon:
60 seconds remaining.
Come on, girl.
That's it.
- Gerron, make it shine.
- Yes, Chef.
Plate with finesse.
Joe:
I wanna see beautiful dishes.
Gordon:
Come on, guys.
Judges:
Ten, nine, eight, seven,
six, five, four, three,
- two, one.
- And stop.
Hands in the air.
Joe:
Okay, home cooks.
Bowen had five hearts
to distribute amongst
you home cooks.
We're going to start with Bowen.
I never cook artichoke before,
but I feel like
the flavor is there.
The only concern is
I don't think I put enough
artichoke heart on my dish.
Okay, Bowen,
what's the dish?
Here I have artichoke salad
with quail egg,
and stuffed cabbage roll
with shrimp on top.
These artichokes,
how were they cooked?
Salt and pepper, garlic,
onion, and Asian wine.
And what are these
cabbage rolls filled with?
Just mushroom.
It's quite frankly
delicious.
It's very light
and flavorful.
The cabbage is perfectly
steamed, it's crunchy.
The mushrooms inside
are seasoned well.
The shrimp,
are cooked really well.
This is a delicious dish.
I only wish,
that there was
more artichokes.
- Okay.
- But a good dish.
Thank you.
Visually, it looks beautiful.
It's got wonderful contrast
and colors that pop.
Artichokes are delicious.
So, this is a good dish,
but you chose the easy route
out tonight.
I was hoping that you chose
a difficult heart,
'cause that'd send
a strong message to all of us
that you're here
to get to the finale.
- Thank you.
- Thank you, Chef.
Next, the home cook
that got the tuna heart, Cesar.
I was nervous getting the most
difficult of the hearts,
but that really pushed me
to draw from somewhere else
in my culinary skills,
and I'm very proud
of what I created.
So I think this will
show Chef Aarón
that I'm the strongest
competitor here.
Cesar, my last surviving apron.
Describe the dish.
So I have grilled
tuna heart kabobs
with sesame and chive
steamed rice,
and roasted mushrooms
with a spicy citrus glaze.
Did this tuna heart give you
any kind of confusion?
Yeah, I was definitely nervous.
I drew a blank.
So I had to try a piece
just to see what it was about,
then I started thinking,
"Okay. Where have I seen tuna?"
And it's always
with Asian flavors.
Here's what I love.
You were able
to tamper down
that very intense,
assertive flavor of tuna.
You chose flavors
that complement it,
but don't obscure it.
So the idea of sweet, spicy,
I think makes a lot of sense.
And then you chose the rice
to be the perfect vehicle
to soak up all that wonderful
flavor from the marinade.
- Mm-hmm.
- You really took
what could be argued the most
challenging of these hearts,
made it look
like child's play.
- Great job.
- Thank you, Chef.
Wow! The tuna heart's delicious.
Love the glaze.
Possibly a touch
too sweet.
- Okay.
- But here's what I love
about you.
You cook, sound,
and move like a chef.
- Thank you.
- And who knows?
Potentially America's
next MasterChef.
- Thank you very much, Chef.
Appreciate it.
- Great job.
- Good job, Cesar.
- Thanks.
Next up, a home cook
wearing Gordon's apron
that was given duck heart,
Samantha.
Samantha:
I'm not happy.
It looks like I was walking
through a buffet
with a plate and I just kinda
put this one here,
put that one there.
This is not how I should
be plating at top five.
I really just hope my flavors
are there to keep me
in this competition.
Samantha.
So what's the dish?
Today I have for you
grilled duck heart
on a bed of brown rice
with a cranberry compote
and a cabbage slaw.
I love the idea of this dish.
Let's talk about the plating.
- Yeah, I'm not happy.
- No one's happy
with this plating.
Tell me
about the cranberries.
I did cranberries,
apples,
and plums, and then some zest
of a blood orange.
This is a smart dish,
because the cranberry
compote is super tangy.
The duck heart
is cooked properly.
The cabbage is acidic.
So together you have
sweet, acid, rich.
You got it all going on.
It's just that as a plate
it just looks so like
yesterday's news.
Yeah.
- Mmm. That's delicious.
- Thank you.
The bite of the duck
with the cranberry is magical.
I think duck screams
for something sweet
and viscous,
and so I'm happy
that you went that route.
- Thank you.
- It's just missing one or two
things in the presentation.
- Good job.
- Thank you, Chef.
Next up, wearing
a Gordon Ramsay apron,
she had to cook
with lamb heart, Ashley.
Ashley:
Even though this is my first
time cooking with lamb heart,
I put my heart and soul
into this dish,
and I really want those
Moroccan flavors to sing,
because of my travel
experiences there.
And I hope the judges see that
tonight and taste it.
Ashley,
describe the dish, please.
I made a Moroccan-spiced
fried lamb heart
with couscous,
roasted vegetables,
with a tomato ragu.
Why slice the heart?
I wanted to show off
that it was rare on the inside
and also add another note
of color to the dish.
- It's seasoned beautifully.
- Mm.
Couscous is fluffy
and light, delicious.
You got that irony flavor
from that lamb's heart,
which tastes slightly gamy.
What would I change?
Slice a bit thinner,
'cause it's so fibrous.
But your stock is rising
and you're just
getting stronger.
- Great job.
- Thank you, Chef.
Incredible.
- Oh, thank you.
- Incredible.
The tomato sauce does
a really great job
of lifting up those
beautiful lamb hearts.
And the couscous is
a great source of texture.
And then there's some freshness
with those vegetables.
The flavors are dynamite.
- Fantastic job.
- Thank you.
Next up, the young man
that got dealt the beef heart,
Gerron.
I don't have much experience
cooking beef hearts,
but growing up I cooked beef
livers with my mom all the time.
And so tonight, I put a lot
of heart into my dish.
- My mom would be so impressed.
- Describe the dish, please.
You have beef heart
and onions
with a herb and potato mash,
and sautéed cabbage
with stewed tomatoes.
Gerron, let's make
something really clear.
That looks like that beef
was ( bleep )
all over my plate.
I've seen the way you have
plated so beautifully,
and I look at that,
and I think,
"That's not Gerron."
What happened
to the plating?
I waited till the last minute
just trying to make sure
that all of my flavors were
gonna come together.
Trying to make it look nice,
but just lost a lot of time
toward the end.
The actual cook is perfect.
So, it tastes way better
than it looks.
- Thank you, Chef.
- Flavor's there.
Cabbage delicious,
but your presentation,
we've hit rock bottom,
and that's what
it's coming down to.
- Mm-hmm.
- Your flavor profile
is a dream for me,
and to see you go home now
based on presentation--
I'm not mentoring you,
but I'd be pissed.
- Yes, Chef.
- Thank you.
The beef heart's cooked
perfectly.
- It's a perfect medium rare
to rare.
- Thank you.
It's got nice seasoning
on the outside.
I love this gravy.
The mashed potatoes are top.
You are the number one
mashed potato maker
at "MasterChef" for sure.
- Thank you.
- It's a nice dish.
Problem is, Gerron,
the plating, eh,
could've been better.
And you're my last apron here,
so I say this with a bit
of a heavy heart.
Everyone is firing
on all cylinders tonight.
This is not
up to snuff.
Definitely, Joe.
I'm so disappointed
in my plating tonight.
At this point
in the competition,
everything needs to be on point.
Samantha's plating was off
just like mine,
so I'm hoping
that my flavors are enough
to keep me here tonight.
Looked like a cafeteria.
That was a very, very tough
challenge featuring hearts.
All three of us were blown away
with the quality of the dishes.
Please, head down to the front.
I feel everybody
that is top five deserves
to be top five.
Flavor wise,
very few negative things said
about anybody's dish tonight.
That was the top five, Joe.
- Every time it comes down
to tiny detail.
- I know.
I know.
At this level, top five,
come on.
It's a shame that someone might
have to go home on plating,
but at this point,
that can cost you your spot
in the MasterChef kitchen.
All of you have grown
throughout this journey,
and we are extremely
proud of all of you.
Joe:
So, with that said,
if we say your name,
you're safe.
- Okay.
- You simply head up
to the balcony.
Ashley.
Cesar.
Thank you.
Bowen.
So that just leaves two of you.
Samantha:
I feel so defeated.
I know I can do better,
I hope the judges
see enough in me
to give me the opportunity
to continue in this competition.
I want to show Gordon
that his investment in me
is gonna pay off.
- ( whispers ) Good luck.
- ( whispers ) Thanks. You, too.
If I say your name,
you are safe.
Samantha.
- ( whispers ) Whoa!
- ( whispers ) Oh, my gosh.
Gerron:
Congratulations.
Gerron.
What are you waiting for?
I said your name.
- ( laughter )
- Shut up!
- Shut up.
- Gerron.
Gerron:
Oh, my goodness, man!
I thought for sure
I was going home.
This is so exciting!
- Oh, my God.
- Come here, big guy.
I get another chance
to prove myself
in the MasterChef kitchen.
From now on,
my plates will be on point.
- Oh, my God!
- Wow!
Wow!
I need to make sure
that I get to that finale
so I can make Joe proud.
( sighs )
Tonight, there was nothing
separating the flavor profile
of each and every one
of your hearts.
But next time
I promise you this,
we are putting you
through a bulletproof way
to eliminate someone.
Get some rest.
Good night.
Home cooks:
Good night, Chef.
Narrator:
Next time on "MasterChef"...
the five best home cooks
in the country
face the most daunting
challenge of the season.
- Gordon: Beef.
- Damn, that's big.
Joe: Tonight,
you'll face a series of tests.
The home cooks are just one...
- ( bleep )
- No.
- two...
- What have you done?
- Whoo hoo!
- Oh, my lord.
- three dishes away...
- What is Bowen doing?
I never grilled meat before.
from the semifinals,
and a chance to become
the next MasterChef.